how to ask questions in a smart way? 

use of open source has become widespread,¡°Good question!¡± is a strong and sincere compliment.

What we are, unapologetically, is hostile to people who seem to be unwilling to think or to do their own homework before asking questions.

before you aks

1Try to find an answer by searching the archives of the forum or mailing list you plan to post to.

2Try to find an answer by searching the Web.

3Try to find an answer by reading the manual.

4Try to find an answer by reading a FAQ.

5Try to find an answer by inspection or experimentation.

6Try to find an answer by asking a skilled friend.

7If you're a programmer, try to find an answer by reading the source code.

Use tactics like doing a Google search on the text of whatever error message you get

Take your time. Do not expect to be able to solve a complicated problem with a few seconds of Googling. Read and understand the FAQs, sit back, relax and give the problem some thought before approaching experts.

diff
Prepare your question. Think it through. Hasty-sounding questions get hasty answers, or none at all.

Beware of asking the wrong question.

aking it clear that you are able and willing to help in the process of developing the solution is a very good start. 

when you ask
1Choose your forum carefully
	the first step, therefore, is to find the right forum. 
	Know what your topic is! 
	
2Stack Overflow
	Start with a Google search before looking at Stack Exchange
	If you still didn't find anything, post your question on the one site where it's most on-topic. Use the formatting tools, especially for code, and add tags that are related to the substance of your question
3Web and IRC forums(£¿)
	These are good first places to ask, especially if you think you may have tripped over a relatively simple or common problem. An advertised IRC channel is an open invitation to ask questions there and often get answers in real time.
4As a second step, use project mailing lists
	a project has both a ¡°user¡± and a ¡°developer¡± (or ¡°hacker¡±) mailing list or Web forum, and you are not hacking on the code, ask in the ¡°user¡± list/forum. 
5Use meaningful, specific subject headers
	object-deviation¡± description will help you organize your thinking about the problem in more detail. 
6Make it easy to reply
	Finishing your query with ¡°Please send your reply to... ¡± makes it quite unlikely you will get an answer.
7Write in clear, grammatical, correctly-spelled language
8Send questions in accessible, standard formats
	Send plain text mail, not HTML.
	Never, ever expect hackers to be able to read closed proprietary document formats like Microsoft Word or Excel.
	In Web forums, do not abuse ¡°smiley¡± and ¡°HTML¡± features 
